We extend a warm welcome to all of you.
We’re so happy to have you join us
for this month’s broadcast.
Here’s a little sample
of what will be contained
in our program.
Proverbs 3:5 tells us
to “trust in Jehovah with all [our] heart.”
We’ll see how three brothers
facing different challenges
overcame them
by trusting in Jehovah completely.
Though personal attacks may start small,
being bullied can quickly make you feel
alone and worthless,
wondering, ‘Why me?’
In this month’s My Teen Life,
we’ll hear how Charlie and Ferin
learned to cope with bullies
and grew stronger and more confident
as a result.
And in a new dramatization,
we’ll reconnect with two dear friends,
Neeta and Jade,
and see how they remain loyal
when confronted with false reports
about the truth.
Yes, there’s much to look forward to
in this September 2022 edition
of JW Broadcasting®.
The theme for this program is
“As Jehovah’s Sheep,
Reject ‘the Voice of Strangers’!”
It’s estimated that there may be
15 million animal species on earth today.
But of all these animals,
which one is most often used in the Bible
to represent good people?
Sheep!
Jesus often used this illustration.
Here are three examples.
First, to his 12 apostles, he said
at Matthew 10:16:
“I am sending you out as sheep
among wolves.”
Second, regarding what he’ll do
shortly before Armageddon,
he said at Matthew 25:32, 33
that “he will separate people
one from another,
“just as a shepherd separates the sheep
from the goats.”
In subsequent verses,
he describes how the sheep
will inherit everlasting life
but the goats will depart
into everlasting destruction.
Our third example: Jesus said
at John 10:16:
“I have other sheep,
which are not of this fold;
“those too I must bring in,
“and they will listen to my voice,
and they will become one flock,
one shepherd.”
But a question arises:
Why did Jesus use a sheep illustration
to represent people
who will gain everlasting life?
Undoubtedly, it was
because of the desirable qualities
literal sheep have.
They’re gregarious,
having a liking for companionship.
They don’t like to be alone.
And it’s a good thing
because without the flock
and the protection of the shepherd,
they’re defenseless
if a lion or a bear approaches.
About all they can do is bleat, “Baa.”
Goodbye, little sheep.
Another good quality is that sheep as a whole
tend to be peaceful, inoffensive
—very different from goats.
As little boys, my brother and I would pet
the goats that my grandfather had,
but if we turned our backs on them,
one would often sneak up behind us
and butt us for no reason.
These are some
of the desirable characteristics
that make sheep an appropriate illustration
for good people.
But the quality
we especially want to focus on
is identified at John chapter 10,
verses 4 and 5.
“When he [that is, the shepherd]
“has brought all his own out,
“he goes ahead of them,
“and the sheep follow him,
because they know his voice.
“They will by no means follow a stranger
“but will flee from him,
because they do not know
the voice of strangers.”
So, what’s the desirable quality?
Sheep listen to the voice of their shepherd
and reject the voice of strangers.
Regarding this quality of sheep,
the September 1, 2004, Watchtower  said this:
“A book on Bible lands relates
that a visitor once claimed
“that sheep recognize their shepherd
by his dress, not his voice.
“A shepherd answered
that it was the voice they knew.
“To prove this, he exchanged clothing
with the stranger.
“Dressed in the shepherd’s garb,
the stranger called the sheep,
“but they did not respond.
“They did not know his voice.
“Yet, when the shepherd called them,
though he was disguised,
the sheep came at once.”
Please ask yourself,
‘As one of Jehovah’s figurative sheep,
‘do I obediently respond
to the voice of the Fine Shepherd
and flee from the voice of strangers?’
Well, let’s talk about this.
The original stranger was Satan the Devil.
Like a ventriloquist,
he made a serpent appear to talk,
but the words were Satan’s words.
Satan thereby used his voice
to slander Jehovah
and deceive Eve.
Today, Satan continues his work
as an evil ventriloquist
using, not serpents, but human puppets
to enunciate his voice
—these acting as his agents
either wittingly or unwittingly.
But now let’s discuss three examples
of how our Fine Shepherd tells us one thing
but Satan’s underlings, or strangers,
tell us something opposite.
We must be vigilant to listen
to the right voice.
Our Fine Shepherd tells us,
as our first example,
these words at Matthew chapter 24,
verses 45-47:
“Who really is the faithful
and discreet slave
“whom his master appointed
over his domestics,
“to give them their food at the proper time?
“Happy is that slave if his master on coming
“finds him doing so!
“Truly I say to you, he will appoint him
over all his belongings.”
We know the Master, Jesus,
found “the faithful and discreet slave”
spiritually feeding
righthearted ones in 1919,
and at a future time
“will appoint him over all his belongings.”
So, what’s the implication?
Obviously, even now,
Jesus fully trusts the faithful slave.
And all of us,
even individual members
of the Governing Body,
should do the same.
But what does the voice of strangers
say on this subject?
“Don’t trust the faithful slave.
He will mislead you!”
And who often have the loudest voice
promoting this false message?
Apostates.
Hebrews 13:9 labels false messages
as “strange teachings.”
Yes, they are the teachings of strangers.
Some examples of their strange teachings
are that the faithful slave
protects pedophiles
or that the slave will exploit you
so that they can live lives of luxury.
Those are both bald-faced lies.
Acts 20:30 says that apostates
“speak twisted things.”
They do this
in order to draw God’s sheep away
and make them followers of themselves.
Something that’s twisted
is bent out of shape,
or distorted.
They speak twisted things
by leaving out vital details,
taking things out of context,
or in some other way manipulating a truth
into a lie or into a misleading half-truth.
Second Peter 2:3 says:
“They will greedily exploit you
with counterfeit words.”
A counterfeit is something
that’s carefully designed
to look like the real thing.
Take, for example, counterfeit money:
It might look genuine,
but it’s fake and thus worthless.
If we’re deceived into accepting it,
we’ll lose money.
But if we’re deceived into accepting
the counterfeit words of apostates,
we’ll lose our life.
And apostates will give us
absolutely nothing of value in exchange.
Can you imagine really needing
a loving shepherding visit
and asking apostates to give you one?
Similarly, we must be careful
about believing everything
presented in the media
about Jehovah’s organization.
Remember, the media is commonly motivated
by prejudice, hatred,
and a desire for profit.
False and exaggerated news reports
are very common.
For example, in one European country,
many people were indignant
when an emotional press report stated
that a young female Witness died
because she refused a blood transfusion.
Were those the complete facts?
No.
The patient refused a blood transfusion
on religious grounds,
but she did agree
to alternative nonblood medical management.
This could have been implemented immediately
and likely would have saved her life.
However,
the hospital delayed matters unnecessarily
until it was too late.
The press report didn’t mention these facts.
While it’s unreasonable to distrust
all secular sources of information,
we must be wary.
First John 5:19 says:
“The whole world is lying
in the power of the wicked one.”
Now let’s discuss a second example
of the voice of our Fine Shepherd, Jesus.
At Matthew chapter 5,
verses 27 and 28, Jesus said:
“You heard that it was said:
“‘You must not commit adultery.’
“But I say to you that everyone
who keeps on looking at a woman
“so as to have a passion for her
has already committed adultery with her
in his heart.”
Our Fine Shepherd is telling us
not only to avoid sexual immorality
but also to flee from anything
that could lead to it,
such as immoral thoughts.
And at Matthew 19:9,
our Fine Shepherd tells us:
“I say to you that whoever divorces his wife,
“except on the grounds of sexual immorality,
and marries another
commits adultery.”
Here Jesus makes clear
that the only valid basis
for divorce and remarriage
in God’s eyes
is if a disloyal mate
commits sexual immorality.
But what’s the voice of strangers
of Satan’s world telling us
regarding divorce, adultery,
and other forms of sexual immorality?
“No problem.
It’s your choice.
You have the freedom to do what you want.”
In fact, in order to make sexual immorality
appear more innocent,
it’s often euphemized.
Sexual perversion, such as homosexuality,
is called an alternative lifestyle.
One so-called expert said
that it’s simply like being left-handed!
Pornography is called adult entertainment.
Adulterous betrayal of one’s marriage mate
is called having an affair.
Many call getting married old-fashioned
and see nothing wrong with living together
without marriage.
And this world’s media is very skillful
at presenting something bad as good.
For example, in a movie,
a female character might be portrayed
as having a husband who is abusive.
You like the woman,
and you want her to find happiness.
Then a handsome man
starts working in her office,
and he’s so nice to her.
There’s an attraction between them,
and the budding romance is presented
as something good.
Soft background music makes it hard
to consider her course to be bad.
It’s easy to keep watching
and hope she leaves her marriage mate
and runs off with her workmate.
And usually that’s what happens.
So easily we can forget
that Jehovah and Jesus hate adultery
and unscriptural divorce.
But when we reject the voice of this world
and listen to the voice of Jehovah and Jesus,
we bring protection and blessings
to ourselves and others.
But now our third example
of the voice of our Fine Shepherd
is at Matthew chapter 6,
and we’re going to read verses 19 and 20:
“Stop storing up for yourselves
treasures on the earth,
“where moth and rust consume
“and where thieves break in and steal.
“Rather, store up for yourselves
“treasures in heaven,
“where neither moth nor rust consumes,
and where thieves do not break in and steal.”
We’re told that our focus
should be on spiritual things
and not on physical things.
And this is especially true
when thinking about where we are
in the stream of time
—in the final part of the final part
of the last days.
But what’s the voice of strangers
of this world on this subject?
“Exert yourself vigorously to acquire
“material possessions.
“Pursue things
“that will make your life comfortable
because that is
what will bring you happiness.”
The question is, To whom are we listening?
Jehovah and Jesus tell us to be content now
with a spiritual paradise,
to concentrate on our lifesaving
preaching work,
and that they will provide
a physical paradise later.
First Peter 2:11 indicates
that we should view ourselves
as “temporary residents”
who are just passing through this old system
and headed for “the real life”
in the new world.
What do we mean by “temporary resident”?
Well, imagine that you rent
an old house to live in
while a new beautiful house
is being built for you.
You’ll live there only a few months.
Would you install a new concrete driveway?
Would you put in new electrical wiring
and plumbing?
Would you install brand new vinyl siding?
No.
You might do a few cosmetic things
to make your stay a little more comfortable,
but you wouldn’t do anything major.
Why?
Because you know you’re
just a temporary resident and that soon
you’ll move into your beautiful new home.
Well, if we think of ourselves
just as temporary residents
in this old system,
it’ll be a real protection
against the materialism
that is promoted by the voice of strangers.
We’ve now discussed three examples
of Jesus’ voice:
(1) Trust “the faithful and discreet slave.”
(2) Reject sexual immorality
and unscriptural divorce.
(3) Focus on storing up spiritual treasures
rather than material treasures.
Of course, there are many other examples
of these two different voices,
but may we all be vigilant
to listen to the right voice!
Of Jesus, Jehovah himself said:
“This is my Son, the beloved,
whom I have approved.
Listen to him.”
But in order to do so obediently
as Jehovah’s sheep,
we must reject the voice of strangers.
But how would you handle things
if “the voice of strangers”
was brought to you by someone close
—a friend or perhaps even a family member?
That’s what Jade faces
in the following dramatization.
How will she learn to reject
the voice of strangers
in a sensitive situation?
Amen.
Smells wonderful.
Oh, wait. I forgot.
You should cook every night.
If you clean every night.
Uh, no, we’ll take it in turns.
Ta-da!
But this looks amazing!
Thanks.
It’s practice for my first guest.
Really? Who?
My mum.
That’s wonderful!
We had our first phone call in a year
that wasn’t a total disaster.
So I invited her around tomorrow.
It’ll go great.
Hi, Mum.
Hello, love.
Come in.
Nice to see you.
Nice to see you too.
Let me take that.
Oh, thanks, my love.
That’s fine.
Your roommates,
did you say they’re explorers?
Pioneers
—they preach full-time,
but they work part-time.
Hmm, I see.
But you’re not?
No, not yet anyway.
Jade, love,
all this,
I see it’s made you a better person.
Heaven knows I tried.
But I miss bits of the old Jade.
Bits?
What, what bits?
Where’s the Jade that questioned everything?
So then she pulls out her phone
and starts showing me stuff about Witnesses.
What kind of stuff?
News stories, all negative and slanted.
I tried to change the subject,
but she just kept at it.
See you later, girls.
Bye.
Bye, Keesha.
Sorry, I’ve got to get ready.
Well, how long are you going to be gone for?
I’ll stay another month.
I told my daughter it’s too hot here.
What’s happened to me?
Abigay.
Jade girl.
How are you?
Been better.
Neeta said that your mother visited.
I hope you don’t mind.
No.
Mum’s driving me mad.
It’s—it’s like it’s her hobby
to ruin my life.
Oh,
she sounds wonderful,
like me when my daughter got baptized.
You opposed your daughter?
Oh, mercy, yes.
I love her so much.
And I didn’t want to lose her.
But I’m not going anywhere.
Of course not,
but a worried mother doesn’t know that.
Mother, lunch is ready.
I’ve got to go,
but I have a scripture for you.
When you read it,
remember your Mum is not the “stranger.”
John 10:5:
“They will by no means follow a stranger
“but will flee from him,
because they do not know
the voice of strangers.”
Mum is not the “stranger.”
It’s what she shares.
“Reject the voice,”
not her.
Did you look at those links that I sent you?
Mum,
I want us to get together,
but I won’t hear anything negative
about my beliefs.
Well, perhaps we just won’t talk religion.
It’s a deal then?
All right then.
I can see I’m not going to get anywhere.
So, what subject do you want to talk about?
The deal fell apart
—fast.
Jade, I know
we weren’t going to talk religion,
but I must tell you
this one thing that I read.
Mum, I thought
we weren’t going to talk about this!
It’s getting late.
I’m going to go.
Thanks for dinner.
I’ll call you tomorrow.
Jade, I got an alert this morning
that I really wanted—
Mum, no.
I don’t—
I was sure this wouldn’t work.
And then it happened.
Jade, I’d like to change our agreement.
If I ask you what you believe,
you get to answer.
Short answers
—I won’t be converting.
It’s a deal then?
Yeah, it’s a deal.
How wise it was for Jade to distinguish
between the dangerous falsehoods
about Jehovah’s people
and the person unwittingly promoting them!
Jade took a clear stand,
but she also patiently showed
that she loved her mother.
This not only protected Jade
from dangerous thinking
but also helped her mother.
Unfortunately, as our children grow
and attend school,
many face a modern scourge:
bullying.
How can they overcome
the fear and negative feelings
that being bullied causes?
We’ll listen to two of our teenagers share
what worked for them
in this edition of My Teen Life.
My experience with bullying
ultimately started
in physical education
when this kid who shared a locker
a few spaces away from me
took that opportunity
and started to verbally attack me.
I first experienced bullying
in elementary school,
but it was little stuff, nothing too big.
In middle school is when
it was really, really something.
It was upsetting that I
was being bullied; it made me feel
like I was doing something wrong.
Why did I have to be the target?
It got really personal.
He would call me names.
He would say that, you know,
I wasn’t good at anything, that no one
cared about me, that I was
dumb, that I was weak.
Especially after he found out
that I was a Witness,
the texts just got even more intense.
It was one day specifically
that was really bad.
It started in a classroom.
I heard one girl
talk to another girl about me,
right in front of me, and these were lies.
We went to lunch, and I was cornered again.
‘Is this how middle school is going to be?
‘I don’t have anybody to be with,
to hang out with during school,
because everybody doesn’t like me.’
I felt no one liked me.
It was the worst day ever.
I no longer felt
that I was valuable at that point.
I was starting to feel more that I was
this weak person, that I was
defenseless, that no one cared about me,
and that I was worthless to anybody.
So hearing that over and over
really took a toll
on my mental health and my emotional health.
I think at my lowest point,
after receiving so many
of these vicious attacks,
I started to have really,
really dark feelings.
And I realized that I shouldn’t let this go
any further than it already had.
That was the moment
when I knew I had to get help.
I told my parents about it, of course.
And especially on the worst day,
I told them everything.
My parents always brought up scriptures
—Proverbs 27:12.
Anytime I saw the bullies,
I would avoid them as much as possible.
Another thing that I was always doing
was praying constantly
—always praying—
before school, during school, after school.
There were times
that I would go into the library
and just read books, just stay to myself.
During those times, I would also pray
to Jehovah, and he was a Friend to me.
He was Somebody that I could speak to
on this matter.
I did end up talking to my parents about it.
They let me get my side of the story out.
They were listening,
and they wanted to help out.
And they made me feel loved.
I definitely took this time
to reach out to the elders.
And they really encouraged me and assured me
that I was not only somewhere
where I was needed
but that I was also somewhere
where I was wanted.
I took some practical steps.
I moved my locker;
I made sure not to retaliate.
Walking away is something very powerful.
Retaliation is something that’s weak
because you’re giving in to your emotions,
and you’re just lashing out.
Eventually, the bully got suspended,
which gave me some peace.
He ended up coming back after a week,
and he started up again with the attack.
I noticed that he hadn’t changed at all,
but I had.
I was much more confident.
With that change, I began to fear him less.
I wasn’t scared of him.
I just saw him as this person
who wanted attention from me.
All the principles that you read
about whether in “Young People Ask”
or scriptures that you pick out
—everything really, really helps.
And you can either see the situation
die down or that it’s not that bad.
You can deal with it, or it just stops.
And it was so encouraging for me,
and it helped strengthen
my faith in seeing how Jehovah
really is there to help.
Don’t keep this to yourself.
Don’t bottle it up,
because that’ll make things worse.
This is a problem that won’t go away
because you ignore it.
You need to talk to someone.
Talk to your parents, talk to your friend,
talk to Jehovah, talk to someone
in the congregation.
Because if you don’t know what to do,
they’ll help you find out
what to do and they’ll give you guidance.
And you’ll be so impressed
by how much Jehovah takes care of you,
and he’ll show you that you are loved by him.
You are loved by Jehovah.
So if you’re suffering
at the hands of a bully,
don’t bottle it up.
You are not alone.
Talk to your parents.
It won’t go away if you ignore it.
But Jehovah can help you face up to bullies,
and you can trust Bible principles
because they always work.
And they work across a wide range
of challenges.
In our next video, see how three brothers
learned to trust completely
in Jehovah and his righteous principles
when confronted with persecution,
immoral influences,
and the snare of pride.
Proverbs 3:5, 6
made a tremendous impression on me:
“Trust in Jehovah with all your heart.”
When I was younger, I probably said:
“All right.
Let me try it and see if it works.”
As much as I loved
what I was learning from Jehovah,
I was still leaning a lot
on my own understanding.
Obviously, when we make
decisions in our lives—
A spiritual person
will review and think,
‘Let’s do this Jehovah’s way.’
And that was something
that I had lost sight of
at that moment in my life.
There was considerable opposition
to the work.
We expected that when we did street work,
we might be picked up and taken to jail.
But Jehovah’s organization
had explained to us
how we were to handle it.
I do remember
when the police finally picked me up,
and they drove me down to Chicago.
It was about an hour’s drive,
and they asked me,
“So, what did you do wrong?”
So I had one hour to witness to them.
And as I recall, I kept track of it,
and I counted the time too.
Things didn’t disturb us
because we were being trained
by Jehovah’s organization.
We knew what to do.
So I ended up in a jail
in Chicago for a weekend,
and there was nothing I could do about it,
so I put up with it.
So I was home for a day or two.
And then I went back to my assignment,
and I kept on working.
I left the rest in Jehovah’s hands,
and he handled it very nicely,
whether we were in jail
or whether we were not.
Eventually, I stumbled
upon the punk rock anarchist scene.
And this really called out to me
because here I could be myself;
I could establish my own standards.
But that scene eventually led me down
to a very dark path of immorality,
drug abuse, drunkenness,
and a lot of violence.
I felt lonely.
I felt betrayed.
I felt that nothing made sense.
I remember thinking back
to when I was learning about Jehovah
and how simple things were.
I decided to give Jehovah another shot.
Reading Matthew 16:24 hit me really hard,
where it says to ‘disown yourself,’
because I knew that scripture,
but I still hadn’t really focused
on what it meant for me.
I knew I had to let go
of certain parts of my personality
and of my old lifestyle.
I’d never really given Jehovah
a completely fair chance.
So I started applying more fully
the principles I found,
and I started trusting Jehovah more.
Very quickly things
started falling into place:
the determination that I had to serve him,
the changes that I needed to make
—changes that I never thought I could make.
I felt that spiritual progress was
appointments and assignments.
I think pride got the best of me there.
Very shortly after we got
to the congregation in Brooklyn,
I’m out in service with the coordinator,
and he says to me:
“The letter came back,
and you weren’t recommended as a servant.
Do you know what happened?”
So I said,
“Well, you know,
I think those brothers
have some problems over there.”
And he said:
“Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
“Stop for a second here.
“You don’t need to tell me anything negative
about the brothers in that hall.
“Focus on what you need to do,
and Jehovah
will take care of the rest of it.”
It really did feel like Jehovah
was just saying: ‘OK, stop.
Right now you need to focus on you.’
And that really just allowed me to relax
and focus on what
was really a lot more important
than whether I had a certain position
in Jehovah’s organization.
The humility and the patience
and the love and the adjustments
that I needed to make
—being a more obedient servant of Jehovah—
those were the things that were so important
that I had forgotten about for a while.
All the time that I spent pursuing
my own interests
always led to disappointment.
And now that I’ve learned about Jehovah
and living by his principles,
I have been having the time of my life.
To know that Jehovah just simply wants
to make me the best version of me
and teach me to enhance my personality
and to become better,
that really endeared me to Jehovah.
Jehovah really cared about me enough
to mold my thinking.
It was kind of like my life
was back in focus,
and I was able to just relax
and serve Jehovah happily.
And then, of course, the blessings
started really pouring in after that.
Everything I’ve done
connected with the truth,
I have enjoyed every speck of it.
You might have some great idea,
but
I found out:
You do things Jehovah’s way
and the end result is nothing but good.
Isn’t it wonderful that Jehovah cares so much
that he takes the time to mold our thinking
and help us be the best possible version
of ourselves?
And what a life lesson from Brother Adams:
“Do things Jehovah’s way
and the end result
[will be] nothing but good”!
With success like that,
why would we try any other way?
Or as this month’s music video asks,
To Whom Could I Go Away?
Enjoy this faith-strengthening original song.
I have listened to Jesus
In these troublesome days.
He lights up my path
As I hear and obey.
He is the Fine Shepherd,
And he shows me the way.
He guides ev’ry step,
Never leads me astray.
Why should I ever listen
To voices in opposition,
Those who would make me stray
From the path I’m on today?
To whom
could I go away?
Where could I turn
in times of trouble?
To whom
could I go away?
The voice of the stranger
Leads only to danger.
It’s Jesus’ words I hear
and obey.
I’m secure and contented
With my place in his care,
Surrounded by love
In the faith that we share.
I look to the future
That Jehovah provides.
His Son is my Savior
With sayings of life.
I will never listen
To voices in opposition.
Why would I ever stray
From the path I’m on today?
To whom
could I go away?
Where could I turn
in times of trouble?
To whom
could I go away?
The voice of the stranger
Leads only to danger.
It’s Jesus’ words I hear
and obey.
To whom
could I go away?
Where could I turn
in times of trouble?
To whom
could I go away?
The voice of the stranger
Leads only to danger.
It’s Jesus’ words
I hear and obey.
To whom
could I go away?
Never, never ever will I stray.
Certainly, that’s how we all feel.
Never do we want to stray
from “the great shepherd,” Jesus Christ,
as he leads us through the end
of this troubled system of things.
May this song encourage us
to stick close to Jehovah’s organization
no matter what befalls us.
For imperfect humans,
unity rarely comes easily.
In our following video, please note
how the Governing Body has always worked
to maintain unity
in behalf of the worldwide brotherhood.
You know I’ve had an illness,
but I’m getting along all right.
There’s a little tumor here in the brain,
which the doctors are treating.
And whatever comes, one way or the other,
well, it has been wonderful
to work with you all these years,
and I enjoyed it tremendously.
And I’m very grateful to Jehovah
I could come to this meeting
and be with you.
Like C. T. Russell before him,
Brother Knorr had an exceptional gift
for organizing the Kingdom work.
That set the stage for the amazing growth
that the organization experienced
during the closing decades
of the 20th century.
Nathan Knorr died on June 8, 1977.
Note what Brother Albert Schroeder,
a fellow member of the Governing Body,
wrote about him:
“As the Society’s principal administrator,
“there have come to be over 90 branches.
“Brother Knorr has proved to be
“the right theocratic entrepreneur
for this period of Jehovah’s Kingdom work.”
Brother Knorr helped to clarify the role
of the Governing Body and its committees.
Headquarters representatives
were sent out to various branches,
branches were better organized,
bodies of elders were appointed
in various congregations,
training programs were instituted,
and schools were established.
Because of the organizational growth,
the number of conventions
being held worldwide
now numbered into the hundreds,
and the Governing Body members
wanted to be present
at as many of those conventions as possible.
For example,
at the 1969 “Peace on Earth”
International Convention,
a Governing Body member
would fly to the convention city
for the opening day,
catch a flight to another convention city,
and then return to the original city
so that he could speak on the closing day.
In the 1970’s and 1980’s,
many existing branches
with printing and shipping capabilities
needed to expand to ensure
that the worldwide supply of spiritual food
would flow uninterrupted
no matter what happened on the world scene.
At times,
there were more than 20 branch construction
or expansion projects
going on simultaneously.
And the Governing Body
was very interested in each one
and eager to dedicate
the new facilities once completed.
For me, it was always very encouraging
to have contact
with the brothers of the Governing Body,
to see their great zeal
and their loving interests
in the brothers behind the Iron Curtain.
In 1977,
something outstanding happened.
it was possible
for Brothers Jaracz, Franz, and Sydlik
to visit the brothers in Poland.
So that was the first time
—the first time—
that members of the Governing Body
could visit the country
behind the Iron Curtain.
They spoke to many overseers,
pioneers, and longtime Witnesses.
That was, of course, a wonderful experience.
One year after this visit,
Brother Jaracz along with Brother Henschel
were able to get an appointment
with government officials
to promote a more tolerant attitude
of Jehovah’s organization
and the work
that Jehovah’s Witnesses were doing
in Eastern Europe and especially in Poland.
Now, mind you, this was all taking place
some ten years prior
to the fall of Communism in Eastern Europe.
They took various steps
to meet with the local brothers in person.
And Brother Barry of the Governing Body
had the opportunity to hold a secret meeting
in the city of Leningrad with Brother Kose,
who was responsible
for the activity in the territory.
Brother Kose said that he received
tremendous encouragement
from that discussion,
from the conversation with Brother Barry.
And it was interesting
that it wasn’t until after that meeting
that Brother Kose found out
that he had been talking
to a member of the Governing Body.
The brothers in Eastern Europe
really needed help to resist
decades of satanic efforts
to destroy their faith in Jehovah
and weaken the unity
and confidence in His organization.
The members of the Governing Body
showed very deep appreciation
for the brothers
who kept the communication
with the brothers behind the Iron Curtain.
Because you have to imagine
that to get the spiritual food there,
they had to be willing
to take a personal risk
to visit
and to bring the spiritual food
to the brothers there,
not just to the countries right close
but down there to the brothers
—down there to Siberia.
In the second half of the 1980’s,
the Iron Curtain began to open up.
There was a sense of freedom in the air.
The brothers in Eastern Europe
could feel that freedom.
As governments granted permission,
the Governing Body organized
conventions in Eastern-bloc countries
—for example, in Poland and Czechoslovakia.
And when bans were lifted,
the members of the Governing Body
traveled many times
to all the countries that were possible
—Poland, Hungary, Romania,
Czechoslovakia, Russia, Ukraine,
and to the Baltic States,
and also to Belarus.
In November 1989,
the Berlin Wall came down.
Well, this was a great turning point
in the history of the 20th century.
But it also meant greater freedom
for our brothers.
The Governing Body really sprung into action.
They wanted to go
and accelerate the work there.
So Brother Jaracz as well as other members
of the Governing Body
closely supervised the work.
Therefore, the number of visits they made,
well, just skyrocketed.
In the fall of 1989,
Brothers Milton Henschel and Theodore Jaracz
had the unique opportunity of visiting
the brothers in the Soviet Union
for the first time.
The brothers really wanted
to study the situation on the ground.
They met with all of the elders,
circuit overseers,
district overseers,
and members of the Country Committee.
It was like one big shepherding visit.
So in Eastern Europe,
1991 was the stage
for three international conventions
with the subject
“Lovers of Godly Freedom.”
But, of course,
besides these international conventions,
other open conventions
(so not in secret, no, open conventions)
were held for the first time
in the former Soviet Union
—in Estonia, in Russia, and in the Ukraine.
Just imagine!
After decades of such difficult persecution,
we experienced the opportunity to be together
with our worldwide brotherhood
and to see the brothers
from the Governing Body.
It was an unforgettable time.
It was the happiest of times.
It was super!
One outstanding convention
was held in Zagreb.
Yes, it was a loving
and a courageous decision
of the Governing Body to go there
despite the uncertainty
of the political situation in the country
and maybe (coming up) a civil war.
This convention was the only public event
that was allowed by the government
in the city of Zagreb.
All other public events
were canceled,
but the convention
of Jehovah’s Witnesses was not.
Policemen and soldiers
assigned to keep security
and order in the stadium
were astonished that Serbians, Croats,
Slovenians, Montenegrins, and Bosnians
were sitting together in peace and in unity.
At those international conventions
in Eastern Europe,
members of the Governing Body
gave the final motivating talk.
And those talks,
given less than five months
after the thrill
of obtaining legal recognition
for our work in the Soviet Union,
strengthened and encouraged our brothers
for trials they would face in the future.
It’s plain to see
that the Governing Body of years past
expended themselves
to “know well the appearance of [the] flock.”
They poured themselves out
“like a drink offering”
in order to “take good care of [the] sheep.”
The same deep love
and tender concern for you,
the sheep of the Great Shepherd’s flock,
has been evident throughout modern times
right down to this day.
What striking evidence of unity
our conventions provide!
While the world around them
roiled with ethnic strife,
hatred, and violence,
our brothers enjoyed a peaceful convention
that rightly impressed the authorities.
Our faith in the fine shepherd and his Father
surely is being rewarded now
and will be even more abundantly rewarded
in the future.
Perhaps, like many,
you’re still talking about last year’s drama,
Daniel: A Lifetime of Faith.
What moving lessons
and awesome depictions
of visions and events from his life!
Would you like to take a look
behind the scenes
and see what went into making it?
Let’s enjoy a tour of some of the work
that helped bring this account to life.
The Bible book of Daniel
is filled with imagery,
visions,
and amazing scenery and architecture.
All of it serves
to teach readers about the times we live in now
and how we can faithfully serve Jehovah.
The team that made
Daniel: A Lifetime of Faith
had to portray these amazing things on film.
How did they do it?
Early concept art
was made to help in the development
of the many visual effects scenes.
The architecture and aesthetics of Babylon
were quite different
from what the Israelites were used to.
The sets needed to be designed in a way
that helped convey
what it was like to be captured
and brought to a foreign land.
The production design and sets
and props departments built 360-degree sets,
which made for an immersive environment.
All of the other wise men are unable to make
the interpretation known to me.
But you are able to do so.
Many costumes and props
were carefully handmade for the production.
Spearheads were hand-forged.
Most of the filming was done
at Mount Ebo Studios in Brewster, New York.
Some additional scenes
were filmed in nearby locations
and in Florida.
You need to rest.
Several miniature sets were built,
including a ziggurat,
and then actors were filmed
in front of a green screen
and inserted into the final shots.
As filming was completed,
scenes were edited together
and the visual-effects team
went to work on many specialized shots.
Digital models of people and animals
were animated and combined
with footage of real environments
to make scenes
that would have been impossible to film otherwise.
For example,
a digital model was made of the immense image
in King Nebuchadnezzar’s dream.
The team researched the characteristics
of the actual materials described
in the Scriptures,
such as metals and rocks,
so that when the image falls,
it appears realistic and believable.
Just look at the results of thousands of hours
spent modeling,
animating, simulating,
rendering, and compositing!
Music and sound effects add the final touches.
“What do you see?”
Jehovah asked the prophet Amos.
What Amos saw taught him important lessons.
In the drama Daniel: A Lifetime of Faith,
what did you see?
And more important, what did you learn?
What did you see?
Hours of hard work?
Dramatic visual effects?
Bible characters brought to life on-screen?
Isn’t it amazing how they all combine
to make what happened
thousands of years ago
seem so real, so vivid,
and so faith-strengthening?
Now let’s enjoy this month’s postcard
as together we climb
the peaks of Switzerland.
About 70 percent of Switzerland
is covered by mountains.
Its tallest mountain rises to 4,634 meters,
or over 15,000 feet, above sea level.
Switzerland has
four official languages: German,
French, Italian, and Romansh,
a descendant language of the Latin
spoken in the Roman Empire.
Switzerland has beautiful waterfalls,
glaciers, lakes,
rivers, streams,
and alpine meadows.
Cows graze these meadows,
and from their milk, the Swiss make
about 450 varieties of delicious cheese.
Switzerland is also well-known
for another treat: chocolate.
In fact, the Swiss consume
more chocolate per person
than people in any other country
in the world!
Since Switzerland didn’t participate
in World War I,
it provided an ideal location to establish
the first Central European branch office
of Jehovah’s Witnesses
in the early 1920’s.
During World War II,
Jehovah’s Witnesses from Switzerland
helped to provide waters of truth
to other countries in Europe.
At great effort and cost,
our brothers found ways
to get spiritual food
to their brothers in Nazi Germany.
After World War II,
our Swiss brothers generously donated
food, clothing, and money
to support the brotherhood
as part of the first
large-scale relief effort
of our modern-day organization.
Today, over 19,000 Witnesses
across the country
meet in 264 congregations
as well as in 39 groups
or pregroups in 26 languages.
Even though a small percentage
of the population speaks Romansh,
our fellow Witnesses make a concerted effort
to reach them in the language of their heart.
The 53 publishers in the Bever Congregation
are busy spreading Kingdom truth.
The Kingdom Hall in Bever
is located in the middle of the Alps
at a height of some 1,700 meters,
or 5,500 feet,
making it one of the highest Kingdom Halls
in all of Europe.
The congregation has 10 regular pioneers
and also hosts an Italian group
supported by 15 publishers.
The Bever Congregation sends its warm love
to our worldwide family.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.